Title: Omni Animal
Date: 2019-01-23

Design and build an Omni-Animal. In this assignment, you will get comfortable with working in the TLTL, and with using the laser cutter to prototype two- and three-dimensional objects. Alternative: Propose creating another object, 
useful or beautiful, of similar complexity as an Omni-Animal. Your project should still meet the same technical requirements. 

- ** 2D design: ** Use Corel Draw or another 2D design tool to create vector-based and raster-based designs. Your omni-animal should have both cuts and etched details.
- ** Computational design: ** Write a program to generate a raster or vector image in Scratch, Python, or another interface. Some part of your omni-animal should be generated by code. 
- ** Cutting out shapes: ** Cut out shapes defined by vector images using the lasercutter. 
- ** Etching: ** Etch raster-based images using the lasercutter. 
- ** Connecting pieces: ** Create three-dimensional objects from two-dimensional components.

## Deliverables

Be ready to show off your Omni-Animal at the beginning of class on Week 2. On Canvas, please submit a document containing the following:

- Some evidence of your planning process. This might include photos, sketches, early prototypes. 
- The code you used to create part of your project. If you used Scratch, please share the project and include a link. If you used another platform (for example, Python's `turtle` library), please submit the code, a link to the repo, etc. 
- Images of your final cut files.
- <del>Don't forget to update your <a href="{filename}/assignments/journal.md">lab journal</a>.</del> Because our paper journals have not yet arrived, you have two options for this week. If you are planning to use a digital journal anyway (as described on the <a href="{filename}/assignments/journal.md">lab journal</a> page), go ahead and do that. If you are planning to use a paper journal, please submit your journal with your Omni-Animal assignment for this week only. 

## Assessment

- ** &#10003; + ** Meets all requirements described above and develops a substantially new technique. Provide a write-up for the website explaining the technique and how to use it. 
- ** &#10003; ** Meets all requirements described above.
- ** &#10003; - ** Does not meet the requirements described above.

## Steps

- Using paper, cardboard, and 2D design tools, develop an idea for your omni-animal. Use <a class="module" href="{filename}/modules/scratch.md">algorithmic design</a> to generate some shapes to be cut or etched. The notes on 
<a class="module" href="{filename}/modules/lasercutter.md">lasercutter & 2D design</a> will also be helpful. 
- As cardboard is cheap, robust, and easy to work with, it makes an excellent prototyping material. Always cut your initial iterations with cardboard. Consider cutting a prototype before you have finalized your design--many people find physical prototypes help their design work. 
- Once you have a final prototype, cut your final pieces out of MDF and assemble them. Save time for tweaks!
